---
layout: post
---

We'll meet on Monday 16th April, 7pm (doors open a little earlier, we aim to start by 7:05pm) at [MadLab][MadLab] for a meeting about Real World uses of Functional Programming!  Please
[register][eventbrite] to let us know you'll be attending.

[Dan Meyers][carr0t] will be telling us about how his team at the BBC uses Clojure
with the Kafka stream processing platform.  Dan will be giving us an exclusive
sneak preview of the talk he's had accepted to the [Kafka Summit][kafka-summit]
in London later this month.  Dan writes:

"In the beginning was PIPs, an API backed by a relational database used to
store all the BBC’s programme metadata. But as more clients came, with more
requirements and ever more complex queries, it became untenable to build one
system able to service them all and maintain performance. Each client wanted a
simple interface to be able to ask their specific complex questions, about
subjects like availability and scheduling.

"The Programme Metadata team turned to a combination of Kafka and Clojure (a
functional, immutable, Lisp dialect) running in AWS to produce multiple
pipelines, one per client requirement. This setup turns the normal ETL
pipeline on its head, with one homogenous backend and multiple heterogenous
outputs. At each level you can see the same pattern repeated, which extends
even into the structure of the Clojure code itself. In this talk we’ll go
through some of the things we’ve learned, look at how the structure of Clojure
mirrors and supports the way Kafka is used, and see how simple commodity
microservices can be reused in multiple pipelines to rapidly satisfy new
client requirements."

Do you have a Real World use of functional programming that you'd like to talk about?  We'll have some time after Dan's talk for you to talk about your project,
either as an informal discussion or a 5 minute "lightning talk"!  (We may be able
to fit in a longer ~20 min talk if that's preferred.)

Please let me know asap if you'd like to talk (contact the mailing list or ping
[@lambdamcr][lambdamcr]) but we may also be able to accept some short talks on the
night.
(We're a very supportive crowd, do let us know if you have any questions!)

(Please [register][eventbrite] to let us know you'll be coming!)

[MadLab]: https://madlab.org.uk/find-us/
[lambdamcr]: https://twitter.com/lambdamcr
[carr0t]: https://twitter.com/carr0t
[eventbrite]: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/real-world-fp-clojure-and-kafka-at-the-bbc-with-dan-meyers-tickets-44998032326
[kafka-summit]: https://kafka-summit.org/sessions/building-microservice-pipelines-kafka-clojure/
